Whenever a website shows user input,
you need to be careful and vigilant.
The users input can be anything and it is
your responsibility to make sure it won't break your site.
A clueless user might break it by accident.
An evil attacker might exploit this flaw and make your website
do things that it did not intend at all.
Not validating user input is one of the oldest vulnerabilities on
the web and it's called cross-site scripting or XSS for short.
The name comes from the fact that JavaScript can be inject into another site but
gets executed and has access to all of that site's data.
A typical example is a website that
asks for a users name when they want to leave a comment.
If this input is not validated,
a user's name can be crafted in such a way that it contains JavaScript code.
That means that every user reading that comment will only see
the name but the code will be executed without the users knowledge.
In the grand scheme of things,
this example here is a rather harmless but the script has
access to all of the site's data including the DOM and Cookies.
It could even make fetch requests from the site's origin.
A well crafted XSS exploit can be detrimental.
The only way you can secure yourself against these kinds of attacks
is to follow a golden rule that always applies in software engineering.
Validate your user's inputs server site.